# jso-lang
 This language (JSO) extends JavaScript by adding operator overloading functionality and type checking in functions. This is done using a modified version of acorn's parser, manually modifying the syntax tree, and using escodegen to reconstruct the code.
## try it out yourself
 To try running the project yourself and writing your own JSO code, clone the repository with the required npm packages and write all of your code in test.jso. By running index.js, your code will be transpiled into test.js and then ran automatically. See the existing test.jso for examples of how to implement these additions.
## notes
 Operator overloading: No syntax was affected to create this functionality, only syntax tree manipulation. Each object can have an operator handler method for an operator, though if one is not found, this will run the default operator on the object(s). The handler method's name must be that of the operator itself (such as "+" or "===") except for the case of unary minus or unary plus, which are "u-" and "u+" respectively. Binary operation handlers will have two arguments, the first being the second object in the operation, and the second argument being whether the current object is to the right of the other object. Unary, update, and assignment operators (apart from = itself) are overloadable. Note that if a specific relational operator (>, <, >=, and <=) is not found on an object, the transpiled code will try to find an alternative defined operator on either object to figure out the correct result (for example, if "<" isn't defined, then the result might be NOT ">="). The overloadable operators are: +, -, u+, u-, !, ~, ||, &&, |, ^, &, ==, !=, ===, !==, ??, <, >, <=, >=, <<, >>, >>>, ++, --, %, \*, \*\*, /, +=, -=, \*=, /=, %=, \*\*=, <<=, >>=, >>>=, &=, ^=, |=, &&=, ||=, and ??=.
 Type checking: Syntax for type checking is borrowed from TypeScript, particularly the function parameter type checking. Since the language is not compiled like TypeScript, type checking is done at runtime instead of compile time (unfortunately). Type checks are done as (kind of) assert statements inserted as the first statements of the function block. Type unions, literal types, object patterns, and array patterns are supported, but arrow functions are not supported.